rorty, 1981:

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
"Foucault offers the two things which people want from a philosopher: a
view about what values to place on current knowledge-claims, and hints
about how to change the world. More specifically, he combines a
sceptical judgment about the nature of science with concrete
suggestions about how power might be taken from those who presently
possess it. His view of knowledge derives from Nietzsche. His view of
power derives from Marx." 
#+END_QUOTE

Zack Malitz:

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
"power today is not something that a small number of people possess
and exert on everybody else, but rather a force that acts through
every institution and relationship in society, so that our very sense
of self is a product of its shaping force.

Power, according to Foucault, is diffuse, decentralized and emanates
from every corner of society, not just the official seats of
government. Resistance, too, is everywhere. Everywhere that people
refuse to cooperate with institutional authority or to uncritically
accept established patterns of social behavior, every time they
attempt to re-organize social relationships according to different
principles or rhythms, they resist power.

For Foucault, the proper role of an intellectual is to expose the
machinations of power and the systems of knowledge that justify,
naturalize or conceal the operations of power. People who face the
business end of domination and exploitation don’t need intellectuals
to tell them that they are oppressed — they know perfectly well. What
they need from intellectuals is not leadership, but resources,
technical knowledge and assistance in navigating dense webs of
institutional power.

Intellectuals act as agents of social change when they translate
expert discourses such as law or economics into accessible
language. Intellectuals, for Foucault, are at their best when, rather
than telling us how the world should be, they show us that it could
easily have been otherwise and, more importantly, that it need not
remain the same."
#+END_QUOTE
